AIM: The explosion of social media allowed individuals to spread information without cost, with little investigation and fewer filters than before. This amplified the old problem of fake news, which became a major concern nowadays due to the negative impact it brings to the communities. The spread of fake news has far-reaching consequences like the creation of biased opinions to swaying election outcomes for the benefit of certain candidates.Moreover, spammers use appealing news headlines to generate revenue using advertisements via click-baits. In this paper, we aim to perform binary classification of various news articles available online with the help of concepts pertaining to Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning. In order to tackle the rise and spread of fake news, we will build a model with the ability to classify the news as fake or real.

DATASET: Source: Kaggle, fake_or_real_news.csv This data consists of 6335 rows and 3 columns namely title of the news, the text, and the label (i.e.) fake or real.

METHODOLOGY: Data cleaning and pre-processing - nktk(Natural Language ToolKit) library. Learning models like Logistic Regression, XGBoost and Passive Aggressive Classifier are used to perform classification of fake and real news dataset. Evaluated each model's performance based on the accuracy score, confusion matrix, precision, recall and f1-score they produced.

Please refer the notebook for detailed explanation on each of these steps.
